Reducing pollution in a farm’s water supply…
Improving the efficiency of a
rural electric power system…
Discovering a new way to extend
the life of a tomato…
These are some of the projects
an agricultural engineer might work on
in the quest to make agricultural operations
as efficient and productive as possible.
Most agricultural engineers work in offices,
with frequent research visits to farms,
labs or rural areas.
They work for government offices,
engineering firms,
universities and manufacturers.
The ultimate goal for these engineers is to
improve crop and livestock production.
This career focuses on the design and
manufacture of the equipment
and facilities needed to reach that goal.
Agricultural engineers examine the impact of
plant and food production
on the greater environment,
and look for ways to reduce negative impacts.
Sometimes they even make news headlines
with breakthroughs on production techniques,
such as genetic engineering and cloning.
Agricultural engineers need an aptitude for
science and technology,
along with good oral and written
communication skills.
They rely heavily on their ability to
recognize and solve problems.
A bachelor’s degree in agricultural
or biological engineering is the
entry-level education needed.
As the world population continues to expand,
the need for the work of agricultural engineers
will only continue to grow.